hi there my name is Matt lawless I'm one
of the directors here at the mic store
and today I want to talk to you about
wireless mics there you may know them as
radio mics but wireless mics radio mics
effectively all they are is a microphone
which allows you to perform or to
present on stage without wires getting
in the way of of the performance now
there seems to be a lot of confusion
about what makes up a wireless mic so I
just want to go through very basics and
essentially how to help you choose the
right one for your application so first
of all we'll talk about the receiver now
this is a receiver this one's a cam kwm
1960 essentially what this does this
terminates the wireless signal that's
been sent by the transmitter so for
every wireless mic you have a
transmitter and you have a receiver and
this is essentially the thing that ends
the chain and effectively like a normal
mic has a microphone socket where it
comes and you plug it into your
amplification system so that's your
receiver these come in lots of different
forms you'll notice that this one has
two aerials on and these areas are
actually detachable you can actually
unscrew them and remove them which may
sound a bit daft but if you're in a
difficult reception area you may want to
basically get this aerial further away
from the box itself and improve your
reception capabilities you could also go
as far as an antenna distribution system
which you could use one pair of antenna
or even sort of paddle antenna which
like a high-powered receiving antennas
to feed like a number of different
receivers or wireless systems so that
that's your receiver that's what
terminates the signal because you're
going to send the signal in the first
place and there you've got some choices
now most people associate something like
this with a wireless mic it's something
that you hold in your hand there's no
wires coming out the bottom and that's
what we call the transmitter the
transmitting parties typically in this
part of of this mic and that's that's a
handheld transmitter there come in a
variety of shapes and sizes
people manufacturers different brands
but in essence what it's doing is it's
picking up the voice you have to
normally get quite close to it and then
sending that through to the receiver
that I showed you earlier on there are
of course other transmitters and other
styles of mics that you could choose so
that's a handheld one which is great if
you need to have lots of different
people using the same system they just
want to pass the mic from one person to
the other
so in interview situations or
question-and-answer situations you might
want to have a handheld mic given to the
participants of maybe a presentation who
are listening to it and they'll pass
pass it around for when they're asking
questions from the panel very common as
well there is a lapel system or you
might call it the valley a system or
sometimes a tie clip system similar to
what I'm using on me here this one's
actually a rode smartlav and I'm
recording this on on my iPhone so your
lapel mic looks something like that will
clip on to the to the person who's
actually you want to pick up the speech
of and that would plug into a belt pack
transmitter so we've got handheld
transmitter and we've got a belt pack
transmitter and these are great little
things and they'll just clip typically
with a little clip here where you can
see that or not without they're just
sort of clips and slides underneath your
belt or top of the trousers or waistband
for a dress or something and that will
all all actually you can put it into a
pouch and tie the pouch around and in to
that you will plug your microphone and
just goes in there in this case this
pops in and then twist around and locks
into position mm-hmm you can get
different varieties of these you can get
varieties from other manufacturers and
increase the quality of the mic and use
the same belt pack by getting an
alternative manufacturer and a lot of
these are common we can help you with a
with a right one for that you could of
course with your belt pack transmitter
use a headset mic or a head warn mic
something like this and that
literally slips in this case slips on
there they've got a couple of pads here
for for comfort and then you can
position the mic wherever you want to
this one's a fairly reasonably chunky
one you can get more discreet ones the
flesh or beige color and that then
terminates similar plug and then again
would plug into the transmitter these
are great for live presentations or for
drummers who are musicians on stage and
need to keep their hands-free for their
performance or magicians I mean we sold
these for all sorts of reasons the lapel
one typically is the one that's used for
presentations for houses of worship and
again one thing just to be aware of
there are a couple of differences with
these that you can pick up to do with
how they actually pick up the sound just
cover that off very briefly you can buy
these in what's called cardioid form or
omnidirectional form and then cardioid
that basically is a directional pickup
so it would pick me up if it's pointing
towards my mouth though away from it and
it's going to do its best to reject the
sound that's it's picking up from behind
that's a cardioid to pick up and
cardioid heart-shaped is where that
comes from and will pick up something
like that in terms of where the mics
positions as opposed to omnidirectional
the one I'm using at the moment is on
the directional I don't where you can
see but this mic is actually pointing
downwards and yet it's still picking me
up fine that's because it picks up the
sound equally all the way around the
microphone so if that's my microphone
it's literally picking up all the way
around left to right front to back top
to bottom
whether you use those two different
types will be determined typically by
whether you're amplifying this signal or
whether you're in a controlled
environment and I'm in a in an office
which is a little bit reverberant see or
hear a little bit of the top end sort of
bouncing around a little bit but if I
wanted to make it more sound like it's
sort of being spoken directly into your
ear or if I want to control the
potential of feedback then I'm much
better off with a cardioid pickup
because that's going to do as I say it's
best to reject sounds that you
wanted to hear and that would include
the microphone hearing itself through
the speakers which is what causes a
feedback loop and that's a very quick
overview in terms of wireless mics
they're a huge topic you can have one
system on a VHF you have multi systems
on UHF you can go for the 2.4 gigahertz
systems if you're license-free around
the world have hundred systems all
running at the same time licenses
there's things to think about with those
as well but effectively if you want to
have a conversation with this pick up
the phone give us a call our numbers Oh
800 oh nine eight eight oh seven nine
will happily talk through your your
requirements and recommend something
that's appropriate for you thanks very
much for watching my name is Matt
lawless and this is the Mike store thank
you